# 2. Write

[How to write a video script for YouTube (epidemicsound.com)](https://www.epidemicsound.com/blog/how-to-write-a-video-script-for-youtube/)

## Research

[Article from devdive](https://github.com/Alexander-Jordan/dev-dive/blob/main/3-basic-tools-for-developers.md)

## Brief

Among all tools available for any software developer, there's only 3 that you really NEED to get started and continue with ease.
1. Text-editor.
2. Version control system.
3. The terminal.
Bonus: Documentation.

## Outline

- Intro
- Text-editor
- Version control system
- The terminal
- Bonus: Documentation
- Hype for more similar content
- Outro

## The Hook

Directly when welcoming the viewer, go to the point as fast as possible, and go through the tools step by step.

Keep it simple, trimming off so that only the most valuable information is said.

Anyone interested of, starting out, or struggling with development will benefit from this video.

## The Script

- **Intro**
  - Hey, I'm `Alex`, this is `devdive`.
  - You are watching `BASIC DEV TOOLS`.
  - Let's dive in.

- **1. Text editor**
  - `What` is a text editor?
    - Something that can `edit texts`.
    - `IDE`, `preinstalled` text editor, or `pen & paper`.
  - Some want `all` the `features`, others wants something more `limited`.
    - Being `limited` can be `cleaner`, but also a good `exercise`.
    - Nothing is stopping you to `use both`
  - `Which` should you choose?
    - Up to `you`.
  - `The terminal` can be used as a text editor.
    - The `second tool`.

- **2. The terminal**
  - Run `commands`.
    - `Made by you`, or `someone` else.
  - `What` you can `do` in a `GUI` application, you can `do` with `the terminal`.
    - But `endless customization` and `features`.
    - You can do `more & faster`.
  - Should you `know everything`?
    - If you `want` to.
    - At `least` learn the `basics`.
  - Developers need to be `organized`, brings us to the `third tool`.

- **3. Version control system**
  - Makes it easy to `manage`, `track`, `revert` & `collaborate` on your project.
    - `Without` it, projects gets `messy` fast.
    - Super clear `who` did `what`.
    - You can follow your projects `history`, & `go back` if you want.
  - `Which` should you use?
    - Multiple `options`, can even `make one` yourself.
    - Most popular: `git`.
  - `git` got some great `documentation`, and speaking of it: here a bonus tool.

- **4. Documentation**
  - Any `information` that `explains something`.
    - How to use a `software`, `Google` search, `Reddit` post, `YouTube` video, `AI` generated.
  - Write `your own` documentation.
    - Can be for your `project`, general `notes`, `comments` in your code.
  - Become great at `finding` and `creating` useful `information`.

- **Hype for similar content**
  - `First video` for this `series`.
    - We'll talk about `webdev`, `gamedev`, and anything else related to `dev`.
  - `What` do `you want` to see?
    - `Comment` below.

- **Outro**
  - `Thanks` for watching!
  - Did you `like` it?
    - `Like` and `subscribe`.
  - `See you` in the next one!
