# 2. Write

[How to write a video script for YouTube (epidemicsound.com)](https://www.epidemicsound.com/blog/how-to-write-a-video-script-for-youtube/)

## Research

- [Git doc](https://git-scm.com/doc)
- [Get going with git (install, config, & create first commit)](https://git-scm.com/video/get-going)
- [Pro Git book](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2)
- [GitHub doc](https://docs.github.com/en)
- [Getting started with yoyr GitHub account](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/onboarding/getting-started-with-your-github-account)
- [Writing books with GitHub](https://braythwayt.com/2015/01/29/how-i-write-books-with-github-and-leanpub.html)
- [GitHub for non-programmers](https://github.com/tvanantwerp/github-for-non-programmers)

## Brief

Git & Github can, and should, be used by everyone - especially anyone in IT.
In this video you learn why, and how to get started.

## Outline

- Hook: What Git & GitHub solves/achieves
- What is Git?
- What is GitHub?
- Git: Install
- Git: Make any folder a repository
- Git: Take a snapshot with a commit
- Git: Branch out
- Git: Modify and take a new snapshot
- Git: Compare main and new branch
- Git: Merge
- What about the cloud? (GitHub)
- GitHub: Connect with Git
- GitHub: Export repository
- GitHub: Create an issue as a requested change
- GitHub: Organize with a project
- GitHub: Set goals with milestones
- GitHub: Branch out
- GitHub: Modify & commit
- GitHub: Create a pull request & compare
- GitHub: Merge
- What's next?
- Conclusion
- Outro

## The Hook

Start the video by showing some of the projects that can be created with Git and GitHub.

Essentially show the end result of the video at the start, so the viewer knows what to expect and get excited for it.

Maybe even ask questions in the beginning of the video which Git & GitHub are answers to.

## The Script

- Hook: What Git & GitHub solves/achieves

    - Millions of developers use Git & GitHub.
    - Organize, collaborate, and keep track of changes over time.
    - Not only for developer/programmers.
    - Can also be used by anyone that needs to manage a lot of files and changes.
    - For example managing a YouTube channel like this, or even writing a book.

- What is Git?

    - A open-source version control system (VCS)
    - Keeps track of every change to files in a folder (repository).
    - Allows you to go back in time when something goes wrong.
    - Makes it easy to collaborate without conflicts.
    - It's all local if you want to.

- What is GitHub?

    - Upload a git repository (main folder) online.
    - Collaborate/Share with others.
    - Also provides tools to plan and organize your projects.

- Git: Install

    - Download/Install from: https://git-scm.com/download
    - Add username/email as credit for your contributions:
        - `git config --global user.name "First Last"`
        - `git config --global user.email "your@email.com"`

- Git: Make any folder a repository

    - Initialize git in any folder to make it a repository/project:
        - git init
    - Or create new project:
        - git init repository-name
    - Add files if you don't have any (README.md file).

- Git: Take a snapshot with a commit

    - Confirm what files has been added/changed:
        - `git status`
    - Need to manually tell what files should be included in your snapshot:
        - `git add <file-name>`
        - `git add .` for all files changed.
    - Look at the status of the files again:
        - `git status`
    - Create the snapshot/commit:
        - `git commit`
        - `git commit -m "Message"` to add a custom message.

- Git: Branch out

    - Let's add to the project, but safely in a new branch:
        - `git branch new-branch-name`
    - Switch from you main branch to the new branch:
        - `git checkout new-branch-name`
    - Both in one command:
        - `git checkout -b new-branch-name`

- Git: Modify and take a new snapshot

    - Add some files to your project.
    - Make some changes.
    - Check the status, add the files to the commit, and create the commit with a message.

- Git: Compare main and new branch

    - Use the `git diff` command:
        `git diff main..new-branch-name`
        OR `git diff main new-branch-name`
    - To only show what files are affected:
        - `git diff --name-only main..new-branch-name`
    - Also works to diff commits:
        - `git diff <commit1>..<commit2>`

- Git: Merge

    - First switch back to the main branch:
        - `git checkout main`
    - Then merge the new branch with the main branch:
        - `git merge new-branch-name`
    - Now you can delete the new branch:
        - `git branch --list` to view all branches
        - `git branch -d new-branch-name`
        - `git branch --list` check that the branch is removed

- What about the cloud? (GitHub)

    - It's great that Git doesn't require internet.
    - GitHub can be used if you want to.
    - Also provides great planning tools.

- GitHub: Connect with Git

    - 